---
title: C-16 Biotechnologies
url: 'c-16'
coverLink: 'https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/v1/5e14f5138c826a2d6387038e/1578441940555-UWN8IFVGVV69LU7BPGBO/c16_lotion-bottle-mockup.png?format=500w'
official: 'https://www.c16bio.com/'
---

C16 Biosciences produces next-generation oils and fats to decarbonize the consumer products supply chain — starting with a sustainable alternative to palm oil and palm-derived ingredients.

Palm oil is everywhere. It`'`s in our food, clothes, shampoo, and even the fuel that powers our cars. But this $61 billion industry has drastic environmental and societal costs: rainforests from Costa Rica to Indonesia are destroyed to make way for oil palm tree plantations, releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and destroying habitats for people and endangered wildlife along the way.

But palm oil doesn`'`t have to be a problem. There remains an urgent need for consumers and companies alike to switch to environmentally conscious, sustainable palm oil products.

Their `"`palm oil`"` is sustainable in fact, it doesn`'`t even involve palm trees. It doesn`'`t cause deforestation, endanger animal species, or force inhumane labor practices. Instead, they offer high-performing ingredients to preserve the planet. The result? A world where consumers can enjoy the products they love without worrying about the dangerous practices involved in making them.

Fermentation is a technology that has been used for centuries to convert raw materials into commercial products consumed by billions of people every day. They combine this age-old art-science with the latest and greatest innovations in biotechnology, with the goal of making better-performing ingredients that just happen to be more sustainable, too.
